Jenkins file is an important concept in Jenkins, both for real world projects and in interviews.
In this lecture, we are going to learn what is it and why do we need Jenkins file?
So let's say at this point you have mastered the Jenkins console with plug ins.
If you need to create a job, you know how to search for the plugin, you install the plugin and new
options appear in the Jenkins job console.
You can select it appropriately and your job is done.
But what if you need to create the same job in all your environments?
Also, what if you need to change some of these jobs down the line?
So not only you have to manually create the similar jobs in staging production uot it's also tedious
to go in the console and then change what the job does down the line.
So you are not happy at that part.
That's a lot of manual work.
That's why Jenkins file was born.
Instead of you selecting options in the Jenkins console, you codify what your Jenkins job supposed
to do.
You can think of this as pipeline as code.
This file is named as Jenkins file.
When the Jenkins job is submitted, it simply grabs the Jenkins file from your GitHub repository and
then runs.
So to replicate this Jenkins job, you can either copy the Jenkins file in this repo and just push it
to the different repo for staging and production, or you can point it to the same Jenkins file.
So this is much more efficient.
So let's go over the advantages.
So Jenkins file is pipeline as code for Jenkins job.
This is very similar to infrastructure's code.
So instead of you provisioning infrastructure in console, you use TerraForm or cloud formation, which
tells the cloud provider what infrastructure to provision.
So Jenkins file is exactly like that.
You tell when to run, what plug into use and how to run.
And since at the end of the day, this is a codified file, you can review this like a code, so it
makes it very easier to review your job.
You can code this Jenkins file directly into the Jenkins job, but the best practice is to keep it in
the git repository.
So you can portion control the Jenkins file and rollback.
If something goes wrong, you can audit trail who changed what and it becomes the single source of truth
for the pipeline.
And in case you are replicating the same Jenkins jobs in multiple environment, it reduces the human
error because you are simply copying over the Jenkins file.
That's why Jenkins file is so important.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.